TELCODOCS-1975 - ZTP Configuring the hub cluster for backup and restore (#87917)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-configuring-the-hub-cluster-for-backup-and-restore.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-preparing-the-hub-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-configuring-the-hub-cluster-for-backup-and-restore_{context}"]
= Configuring the hub cluster for backup and restore

You can use {ztp} to configure a set of policies to backup `BareMetalHost` resources. This allows you to recover data from a failed hub cluster and deploy a replacement cluster using {rh-rhacm-first}.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

* You have logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

> . Create the policy to identify `BareMetalHost` resources for backup and save it as `BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml`. 

Reviewer: change: Create the policy to identify `BareMetalHost` resources for backup and save it as `BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml`.

with:
Create the policy which adds the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation` label to all `BareMetalHost` resources with a infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io label.  Save this Policy under the `BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml`. See below the content for the BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml

                      name: {{ $bmh.metadata.name }}
                      namespace: {{ $bmh.metadata.namespace }}
                      labels:
                        cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation <1>
            {{- end }}
          remediationAction: enforce
          severity: high
---
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: Placement
metadata:
  name: bmh-cluster-activation-label-pr
spec:
  predicates:
    - requiredClusterSelector:
        labelSelector:
          matchExpressions:
            - key: name
              operator: In
              values:
                - local-cluster
---
apiVersion: policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: PlacementBinding
metadata:
  name: bmh-cluster-activation-label-binding
placementRef:
  name: bmh-cluster-activation-label-pr
  apiGroup: cluster.open-cluster-management.io
  kind: Placement
subjects:
  - name: bmh-cluster-activation-label
    apiGroup: policy.open-cluster-management.io
    kind: Policy
---
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta2
kind: ManagedClusterSetBinding
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusterSet: default
----

> <1> This setting enables {rh-rhacm} to restore resources and activation data to a backup cluster if the active cluster becomes unavailable.

Reviewer: Replace 

This setting enables {rh-rhacm} to restore resources and activation data to a backup cluster if the active cluster becomes unavailable.

With

Setting the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label to all these BareMetalHost resources will result in the resources being backed up by the {rh-rhacm} cluster. The resources will be restored if the active cluster becomes unavailable, when the hub activation resources are being restored. ( maybe you can add a link here to the ACM backup ? ). See the [ACM backup documentation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.12/html/business_continuity/business-cont-overview#restore-activation-resources) for more information on restoring activation resources.

Author: I can't add the link to the footnote so I've added it at the end of the document under Addition Resources

. Apply the policy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml
----

.Verification

. Find all `BareMetalHost` resources with the label `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io`  by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get BareMetalHost -A -l infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
NAMESPACE      NAME             STATE   CONSUMER   ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
baremetal-ns   baremetal-name                      false            50s
----

. Verify that the policy has applied the label `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation` to all these resources, by runing the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get BareMetalHost -A -l infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io,cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation
----
+

> .Example output

Reviewer: This is not the output for the above command, it's an example of a BMH with the backup label

- Add after line 124 ( this is the sample output ):
NAMESPACE      NAME             STATE   CONSUMER   ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
baremetal-ns   baremetal-name                      false            50s

The output must show the same content as when running the `oc get BareMetalHost -A -l infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` , which means that all the BMH resources with a infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io label also have the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label.

Below is an example of a BMH with the  infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io label. The resource must also have the  `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label, added by the `set-bmh-backup-label` Policy created above.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BareMetalHost
metadata:
  labels:
    cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation
    infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io: value
  name: baremetal-name
  namespace: baremetal-ns
----

You can now use {rh-rhacm-title} to restore a managed cluster. 

> This is an example {rh-rhacm} `Restore` resource that includes `BareMetalHosts` in the restore process:

Reviewer: Replace 

This is an example {rh-rhacm} `Restore` resource that includes `BareMetalHosts` in the restore process:

With 

Important: 
When you restore the cluster activation data, and as a result restore BareMetalHosts resources, you must restore the BareMetalHosts status.
See the {rh-rhacm} `Restore` resource example below that restores activation resources ( because the veleroManagedClustersBackupName property is set to latest), which includes BareMetalHosts, and also restores the status for the BareMetalHosts resources:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-preparing-the-hub-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-configuring-the-hub-cluster-for-backup-and-restore_{context}"]
= Configuring the hub cluster for backup and restore

You can use {ztp} to configure a set of policies to backup `BareMetalHost` resources. 
This allows you to recover data from a failed hub cluster and deploy a replacement cluster using {rh-rhacm-first}.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

* You have logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a policy to add the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation` label to all `BareMetalHost` resources that have the `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` label.
Save the policy as `BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml`. 
+
The following example adds the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup` label to all `BareMetalHost` resources that have the `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` label:
+

> .Example Policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `Policy`
```
- I believe back ticks are needed because: `kind: Policy`

OR 

**Example policy** -- lower case

Author: Thanks for merging @xenolinux

. Apply the policy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f BareMetalHostBackupPolicy.yaml
----

.Verification

. Find all `BareMetalHost` resources with the label `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io`  by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get BareMetalHost -A -l infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
NAMESPACE      NAME             STATE   CONSUMER   ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
baremetal-ns   baremetal-name                      false            50s
----

. Verify that the policy has applied the label `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation` to all these resources, by runing the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get BareMetalHost -A -l infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io,cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=cluster-activation
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
NAMESPACE      NAME             STATE   CONSUMER   ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
baremetal-ns   baremetal-name                      false            50s
----
+

> The output must show the same list as in the previous step which found all `BareMetalHost` resources with the label `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io`.

Author: Thanks for the review @mburke

Good point. "listed" it is.

This confirms that that all the `BareMetalHost` resources with the `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` label also have the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label.
+

> Below is an example of a `BareMetalHost` resource with the `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` label. 

Reviewer 3: [ISG: Do not use below to indicate a relative location in a document
](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#b)
```suggestion
The following example shows a `BareMetalHost` resource with the `infraenvs.agent-install.openshift.io` label. 
```

> The resource must also have the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label, added by the policy created in step 1.

Reviewer 3: Trying to make this a bit more clear.
```suggestion
The resource must also have the `cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup: cluster-activation` label, which was added by the policy created in step 1.
```
